In the post-match banquet in Madrid on Wednesday night, Bayern Munich's executive chairman Karl-Heinz Rummenigge stood up, as is the custom, to open proceedings and took the microphone.
To Rummenigge's left sat Pep Guardiola staring at the table.
Rummenigge's address had even been heard before in this country and at this time in the competition; in fact for three campaigns running now he has made the same address and at the same stage of the Champions League and after the same result.
Rummenigge urged Bayern to respond after the first-leg semi-final defeat to Real Madrid two years ago, by the same 1-0 score-line they lost to Atletico Madrid this time round, and did so again, less convincingly after the German champions were taken apart 3-0 by Barcelona last season.
Rummenigge wanted to go to Lisbon, he had said, for the 2014 final but Bayern fell short in the return leg.
No wonder Guardiola looked grim.
Guardiola is the most feted manager in modern football, the one they all coveted, and who commands a 15million-a-year salary yet it will cut him to the core if he leaves Bayern and takes over at Manchester City without having won the Champions League with the German club.
Players and colleagues will trip over themselves to shower praise on the intense transformation he has completed at Bayern and the beauty of the football he has inculcated but… And there is that but.
Bayern stay on in the host city for a dinner - English clubs always attempt to fly back - for coaches, players, guests of honour, VIPs and sponsors after Champions League away matches and they did so again in Madrid following the defeat to Diego Simeone's Atletico Madrid side at the emotionally-charged Vicente Calderon Stadium.
Simeone's team has collected 33 clean sheets already this season, wearing them like the spoils of war, it has placed Guardiola between a rock and a hard place for the second leg; the irresistible force of Bayern's attack against the immoveable object of Simeone's formidable defence.
There has been that obsession with whether Guardiola's Bayern would face Manuel Pellegrini's City and it may well still happen in the final.
It will be an acute embarrassment for City but a greater one, emphatically, for Guardiola who might face the prospect of again inheriting a Champions League-winning club from a coach who has unwillingly been pushed out to make room for him.
The greater problem for Guardiola, though, is a blunt one.
Guardiola was tactically beaten by Simeone and fell into an obvious trap.
Bayern could not withstand the Atletico high-press from the kick-off as they relentlessly tried to push back their opponents, win the ball back and grab a goal - which they did.
The goal meant Simeone could then switch his approach, as he planned, to a rigorous, disciplined defence.
Bayern are such a good team that they would eventually create chances but the best opportunity actually fell to Fernando Torres who could have killed the tie in a late breakaway but struck the post.
The post-mortem in Munich will centre on Guardiola's decision not to start with Thomas Muller, in particular, and Franck Ribery but the sober fact is that many of his players are out of form and struggling to maintain their season.
Bayern can rescue the situation and win the tie but it will not be easy back at the Allianz Arena next Tuesday when Atletico will go for another goal to end it and begin the debate as to whether Guardiola has failed or, at least, failed to complete his mission.
It is a familiar situation for Guardiola which is why he looked so grim.
